.\" Manpage for 'RECM'
.\" Change 0
.TH man 1 "22 Oct 2021" "1.0" "RECM man page"
.SH NAME
.B recm
Backup and recovery Manager for PostgreSQL database
.SY
.SH SYNOPSYS
recm

recm
.OP -t target

recm
.OP -t target 
.OP -c "<commands...>" 
.OP @file.recm

recm
.OP -d deposit 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The RECM command is used to manage Backup and Recovery for PostgreSQL databases.
It can be used in interactive mode, where it prints prompt 'RECM>' by default.
To use it in batch mode, use the argument '-c', or indicate a text file that contain commands.
The command use a database to manage backups and retention (called a deposit).

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB -h, --help\fR" 8
Display short help
.IP "\fB -V, --version\fR" 8
Display Version and exit.
.IP "\fB -v, --verbose\fR" 8
Display more log details.
.IP "\fB -t, --target <target>\fR" 8
Connect to a known target and its deposit.
.IP "\fB -d, --deposit <deposit>\fR" 8
Connect to a known deposit only.
.IP "\fB -c, --command <commands>\fR" 8
Execute commands and exit (optional). 
.TE 

.PP
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.PP
RECM need a postgreSQL database (called 'DEPOSIT') to store backups metadata.
Any deposit/cluster will be named by it's configuration parameter 'cluster_name'.
It is recommanded to place backups on a shared file system, but it is not mandatory. 
RECM must be installed on each PostgreSQL server you want to manage.
It does not use SSH.

.PP
\fBInitialize deposit:\fR
.PP
Before to start using recm, you need to create a deposit. A deposit is a database that will keep trace of all backups activities for all registered PostgreSQL cluster.

.IP "Launch recm" 2
#> \fBrecm\fR <no option>
.IP "Connect a PostgreSQL cluster" 2
RECM> \fBconnect cluster /host\fR=deposit_host\fB /port\fR=5432\fB /usr\fR=recmbk\fB /pwd\fR="####"\fB /db\fR=postgres
.IP "Create the database,user and schema for the deposit" 2
RECM> \fBcreate deposit /usr\fR=recm_adm\fB /pwd\fR="####"\fB /db\fR=recm_db\fB /name\fR="<cluster_name>"

.PP 
\fBRegister a new cluster:\fR
.PP 
.IP "Create a user on the PostgreSQL cluster" 2
SQL> \fIcreate role recmbck with password 'xxxx' superuser replication;\fR

For security raison, the role can just have access locally. The pg_hba.conf file can be set for this.

.IP "Connect the cluster and register it to the deposit" 2
RECM> \fBconnect cluster /host\fR=localhost\fB/port\fR=5432\fB/usr\fR=recmbk\fB/pwd\fR="####"\fB/db\fR=postgres
.IP "Connect to deposit" 2
RECM> \fBconnect deposit /host\fR=deposit_host\fB/port\fR=5432\fB/usr\fR=recm_adm\fB/pwd\fR="####"\fB/db\fR=recm_db
.IP "Register cluster to deposit" 2
\fBRECM> register cluster;\fR
.PP
Once you are registered to the deposit, you can connect more quickly like this :
.IP "Connect to the cluster and it's associated deposit" 2
#> \fBrecm -t\fR <cluster_name>
.IP "Complete minimum configuration of cluster" 2
RECM> \fBmodify cluster/backupdir\fR="/my_backup_location"\fB/waldir\fR="/mywaldir"
.IP "Launch a backup" 2
RECM> \fBbackup full/verbose\fR;
.IP "Launch a backup in command line (batch mode)" 2
\fB#> recm \fB-t\fR MYCLUSTER \fB-c\fR "backup full;backup wal/switch;verify backup;"
.PP
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
A command is composed of one or more keyword.  Each command may have an 'option' (parameter without value), and/or a 'qualifier' (parameter with a value).
.TQ
Commands are grouped in different categories(functionality).
.IP "- Backup commands." 6
.IP "- Restore commands." 6
.IP "- Configuration/Managent commands." 6


.PP
\fIBackups commands:\fR
.PP
Summary of all available commands for backups.
.PP
.IP "\fBbackup config\fR" 4
Backup all configuration files (pg_hba.conf,postgresql.conf,postgresql.auto.conf,...)
.IP "\fBbackup meta\fR" 4
Generate metadata of all databases using pg_dump.
.IP "\fBbackup full\fR" 4
Create a full backup of all databases.
.IP "\fBbackup wal\fR" 4
Create a backup of WAL files, and optionally remove them from disk.

.PP
\fIRestore commands:\fR
.PP
Summary of all available commands for restore/duplicate.
.PP
.IP "\fBduplicate full\fR" 4
Restore a complete cluster. The difference between a duplicate and a restore is that the duplicate allow you to create a 'standby'.
.IP "\fBduplicate partial\fR" 4
Restore partial cluster. The restore can be done at database,schema or table level.
.IP "\fBrestore config\fR" 4
Restore configuration files.
.IP "\fBrestore full\fR" 4
Restore a complete cluster.  A restore always work on an EMPTY folder.  You need to cleanup the PGDATA folder by yourself before to launch a restore.
.IP "\fBrestore partial\fR" 4
Restore a part of the cluster. You may choose databases, schema or even tables to restore.  The default is equal to the restore full.
.IP "\fBrestore wal\fR" 4
Restore WAL files.

.PP
\fIManagement commands:\fR
.PP
Summary of all available commands for configuring RECM and Managing clusters.
.PP
.IP "\fBcancel backup\fR" 4
Cancel a backup.
.IP "\fBclrscr\fR" 4
Clear the screen
.IP "\fBconnect cluster\fR" 4
Connect to a cluster (PostgreSQL cluster)
.IP "\fBconnect deposit\fR" 4
Connect to a deposit (PostgreSQL database repository of recm)
.IP "\fBcreate deposit\fR" 4
Initialize the deposit catalog
.IP "\fBcreate restore point\fR" 4
Create a restore point into the currently connected cluster.
.IP "\fBdelete backup\fR" 4
Delete backups. 
.IP "\fBdelete cluster\fR" 4
Remove a cluster fro the deposit (no the currently connected)
.IP "\fBdelete restore point\fR" 4
remove a restore point from the deposit.
.IP "\fBdisconnect cluster\fR" 4
Disconnect currently connected cluster
.IP "\fBdisconnect deposit\fR" 4
Disconnect currently connected deposit
.IP "\fBexit\fR" 4
Exit from recm
.IP "\fBhelp\fR" 4
Display this hort help^
.IP "\fBhistory\fR" 4
Display history commands
.IP "\fBlist backup\fR" 4
Display list of all backups
.IP "\fBlist clusters\fR" 4
Display list of all registered clusters in the deposit.
.IP "\fBlist restore point\fR" 4
Display list of all restore point of the currently connected cluster
.IP "\fBlist wal\fR" 4
Display list of all wal belongs to currently connected cluster.
.IP "\fBmodify backup\fR" 4
Modify a backup
.IP "\fBmodify cluster\fR" 4
Modify cluster configuration
.IP "\fBmodify deposit\fR" 4
Modify deposit configuration
.IP "\fBquit\fR" 4
exit from recm.
.IP "\fBregister cluster\fR" 4
Register currently connected cluster to the current deposit
.IP "\fBregister files\fR" 4
Register backup files to the deposit
.IP "\fBreload\fR" 4
reload configuration
.IP "\fBset config\fR" 4
Change conifguration settings
.IP "\fBset source\fR" 4
Modify default source directory of backups
.IP "\fBshow backup\fR" 4
Display a backup properties
.IP "\fBshow cluster\fR" 4
Display cluster configuration
.IP "\fBshow config\fR" 4
Display recm settings
.IP "\fBshow deposit\fR" 4
Display deposit configuration
.IP "\fBsql\fR" 4
Execute one sql statement onto the cluster or deposit
.IP "\fBstatistic cluster\fR" 4
Display cluster 's backups statistics
.IP "\fBstatistic deposit\fR" 4
Display deposit statistics
.IP "\fBswitch wal\fR" 4
Invoke a switch wal onto the cluster
.IP "\fBverify backup\fR" 4
Verify backups
.SH FILES
.TS
tab(@),left;
l  l.
\fI~/.recm/recm.conf\fR @ Default configuration file.
\fI~/.recm/recm.history\fR @ List of last commands.
.TE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TS
tab(@),left;
l l. 
0 @ Success
1 @ Error
.TE

.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Copyright 2021 www.Rosh4.com. All rights reserved.
